What Left Now
  -Staff
  -Admin
  -role



Clearance Management System Documentation
Overview

The Clearance Management System is a web-based platform designed to manage student clearance processes in an institution. The system supports three types of actors:

          Student – registers, applies for clearance, and tracks application status.

          Staff – reviews student applications, approves or rejects them.

          Admin – manages staff, students, and oversees all clearance applications.

The system ensures structured approval flow and role-based access for all users.

Actors & Roles
1. Student

            Registers with valid data and logs in to access their Student Dashboard.

            Dashboard Features:

            Button: Go to Application → opens a clearance application as popup form.

            Applies for clearance from multiple staff members.

            Each application is sequential; the next application cannot be submitted until the previous one is approved.

Sends full student info and previous application status to each staff when apply Button is clicked.

2. Staff

Receives student clearance applications.

Reviews applications using the student information and previous approval(because of application should be sequential) status.

Approves students if they no exist in the their database.

If a student is  found (e.g., some missing information or exception case):

Staff can rejects that student

The Staff has their special form to add the student to a their  database for some case if the need that student.

Staff Dashboard Features:

        List of assigned student applications whith the status.
        - Add student button to registers one student for theirself

        

3. Admin

Full oversight of the system.

Dashboard Features:

List of all student applications whith their status.


List of staff members with roles.

Forms to:

Add new staff with specific roles.

Add new students for special cases needed.

Workflow
1. Student Registration & Login

Student registers using valid personal and academic data.

Logs in to the Student Dashboard.

Can initiate the clearance application process.

2. Clearance Application Process

Student clicks Go to Application → pops up the application form.

Student applies for clearance from each staff member sequentially.

Cannot proceed to the next staff until the previous clearance is approved.

Each application sends:

Student personal info.

Status of previously approved applications.

3. Staff Approval Process

Staff receives application on their dashboard.

Checks student info against their database.

If student exists:

Not Approves clearance.

If student does not exist:

Approve student

Manages these records separately.

4. Admin Management

Admin can view all student applications and statuses.

Admin can view the list of “Not Found” students.

Admin can add new staff and assign roles.

Admin can add students to the “Not Found” database for special cases.

System Features Summary
Feature	Student	Staff	Admin
Register & Login	✅	❌	❌
Student Dashboard	✅	❌	❌
Apply for Clearance	✅	❌	❌
Staff Dashboard	❌	✅	❌
Approve Student Applications	❌	✅	❌
Handle needed Found Students	❌	✅	✅
Admin Dashboard	❌	❌	✅
Add New Staff	❌	❌	✅
View All Applications	❌	❌	✅
Data Flow Diagram (Conceptual)


student: '68dc28e151ba211d2e251e83', // example ObjectId
    data: {
      full_name: 'Mekias',
      university_email: 'melkiyymeil@apo',
      university_id: '006709/15',
      department: 'Computer Science',
      year_batch: 'Third Year',
      reason_for_withdrawal: 'Personal health-related issues',
      clearance_date: new Date('2025-01-01'),
      application_id: 'APP123',
      approvals: []
    }
  });